impressed me the most was Warner Von Braun.
He gave an illustration which I've never forgotten but he was talking about going to the moon and of course this is when people were still talking and he said to give you an idea of what it takes to go to the moon if you had seven diesel train engines on the track out there and you could harness
all that power at one time, that's how much power it takes to pump the fuel to the engines of a rocket to go to the moon.
I've never forgotten that.
Let's see, did Eisenhower come here while you were?
Yes, he did.
He sure did.
Eisenhower came here and spoke and I remember that and he was very impressive.
Growing up here, what was it like to go to Silver Taps for you?
I've always thought Silver Taps was one of the most impressive traditions that A&M has.
Nearly every time they had that, I would go to the dorm and
be there with somebody and they'd turn the lights out and we'd all walk out and listen to Silver Taps and then turn around and go back and I'd get in the car and go back home.
But I was always very, very impressed with Silver Taps.
I just, I loved that ceremony.
Do you remember anybody ever deliberately not respecting the police?
No.
What about Muster?
Muster as an undergraduate was not that significant to me.
I think it only became a little significant a little later.
That's the impression I have.
And of course it become more and more important but as an undergraduate I didn't quite have much feel for Muster.
Y'all practice?
Very interesting, fun.
About that time it began to get a little rowdy, and I had to watch that a little bit, which I didn't care for, but it was always a fun time.
Was it held in the stadium?
Yeah, they had moved it to the stadium.
The football games in the student section,
Were they rowdy during your day, your undergraduate?
No, I don't ever remember them being rowdy.
Other final review?
Big time.
I always enjoyed the final review.
I always thought that that was very special, a special time and a fun time, and that was also one of my favorite ceremonies.
You and I both were in college during the Korean War.
As you were getting ready to graduate, what did you think was just ahead of you?
Well, I was very concerned about going to war or being in combat and really did not want to go overseas.
But I thought for sure I was going.
and I ended up going to Washington instead.
They took our military class and sent a third of them to Korea, a third of them to Asmara, and a third of them to Washington.
I happened to be one of the ones that went to Washington.
Final review your senior year, who came?
Can't tell you.
No, from your family.
Oh, from my family?
I think my mother came, but that's about it.
As you are, during these years, were you involved with Bonfire at all?
Yes, I worked, particularly my sophomore year,
I worked very, very hard on the bonfire.
In fact, I went and got a winch truck and used it to stack logs, and I worked hours and hours and hours on that bonfire.
As I remember, they got started late because the weather was bad and they just couldn't figure out how to stack the logs.
And it occurred to me if you took a winch truck with gin poles that you could pick a log up and turn it and back that truck right up and stack that log.
And so I went and borrowed a winch truck from the people that I had been working for, and we picked up the bigger logs that were hard to carry and turned them and stuck the end of the log under the tailgate, and then would back right up into the stack.
And, you know, a lot of the guys didn't really know what a winch truck was, and I was kind of proud of myself because I knew how to operate it.
And I stacked many a log that year.
Where was the cutting area?
The cutting area that year was down towards Wilburn, but I don't know exactly whose land it was.
By then you all had started using only logs, not trash.
Correct.
And the bonfire site was where?
I mean the drill field.
Drill field.
And where did the outhouse come from?
I don't know who got that outhouse.
Was it a real outhouse?
Yeah, sure was.
We used to go out and steal them.
But it was a real outhouse.
And did you all have the same kind of lingo now?
Were there red pots?
Yeah, I don't know that it was quite that organized, but there was definitely an organization.
And you used tape and things to identify what outfits there were.
And what, as you look back on it, what was the value of people being involved?
I think just the organizational skills and the camaraderie of being able to do something that you don't think you can do.
And as far as I'm aware, in modern times, everything that goes into the bonfire is donated very willingly.
The equipment, the fuel, the logs.
Yeah.
freshman year, I think, we had a guy killed as far as the bonfire was concerned and that put a damper on things, but it was a car wreck.
He got out, he was serving coffee and he got out and there's a car came up and hit him from behind.
Let's see, Aggie Ring.
Any Aggie Ring stories you can share?
No, but I do think that the tradition or the program they have right now of recycling the rings is one of the best programs I know of.
I just love that.
I think it's wonderful.
I love my ring and I want other people to have theirs too and I've been very proud of my Aggie ring.
Do you remember what it cost?
I want to say $45.
And you've not lost it or have you been somewhere in an unusual place and somebody recognized it?
All over the world.
People ask about that ring.
When you were doing NFL games I presume that ring was there.
Yes.
I will tell you that from a unique standpoint as far as I know I'm the only person in the world that wears those two.
Right now, what's the other one?
It's Super Bowl ring.
I assume that was.
Are you the only, so you're the only Aggie?
As officiated in the NFL, yeah.
There's a good many have played, but as far as I know, I'm the only one that's ever officiated.
Let's see.
As a student, go back to indulgences.
Remember students smoked cigarettes?
Yes.
Did students smoke cigars when you were an undergrad?
No, I don't remember.
Chew tobacco?
Not much, a little bit, but there was some, but there was much more chewing than there was dipping.
And whiskey?
I don't remember an awful lot except on trips and things like that.
I don't remember going into the dorms or anything and drinking whiskey.
And you didn't, as an undergraduate, you and your friends didn't know anything about what we today call drugs.
Never heard of.
That would certainly be true in my case.
Let's see, we're getting near the end.
When you were preparing to leave campus after graduation, what sort of world did you think you were going to be entering?
I thought it was a very challenging world and I thought it was very exciting and I was very interested in going out and trying to make something happen.
I thought there was a lot of opportunity out there, I didn't know how
to get involved in it or how to take advantage of it, but I'm sure is that going to give it a try.
Did you think you were going to be in insurance business?
No, I had absolutely no idea.
I turned down an offer with IBM because I thought that if I was successful, the only place I could end up was in New York, and I didn't want to live in New York, I didn't think, so I turned that down.
A commissioned salesman is something that I just thought that was crazy.
I never dreamed I would do that.
What was your first job?
My first job went to work for Shell Oil Company in their personnel department.
Did A&M have any effect on your getting that job?
I think so.
Did they come here or did you go there?
No, they came to A&M.
This would be the last salary.
Do you remember what that first job salary was?
I don't remember.
Summary questions about A&M.
What is it that creates Aggie spirit?
I think the Aggie spirit is the relationship that the students have to each other, which is, I'm not sure, orchestrated or perpetuated.
or what by the school itself, but it's the friendship, the fellowship, the kindredship that you have for your fellow student.
Are there some events that contribute to that?
I think certainly things like the bonfire football games, all the extracurricular activities, the classroom itself, all
contribute to it, but I think one of the principal reasons is the fact that A&M in its wisdom, whatever it's done, has allowed the student to be in charge of so much.
I mean, ever going back to when I'm a student and when you go out here today and you get involved in a program or whatever it might be, it's all run by the students.
And I think the leadership training that they provide out there is the best I know.
All right.
What did it mean?
What has it meant to you, to your life, that you went to Indiana?
I think pride.
Pride in a great school.
The ability to find comrades wherever you might be who you started out with a leg up because they were Aggies.
Let's make believe someone gave you tomorrow a check for a million dollars.
And there was only one condition on that gift.
You had to pass it on to Texas A&M.
But you could decide what was to be done with it.
What would you want it spent for?
Well, I think the President's endowed...
scholarships are one of the best things that A&M has because they're not any
requirements particularly for that scholarship.
I don't like the requirements that your parents can't have so much money or that grades.
The President's Endowed Scholarship, as I understand it, is a merit scholarship and the merits are that somebody thinks you'll make a good Aggie and I really like that idea.
On the other hand, I would also like to contribute
to some of the organizations that I think
perhaps have not received quite as much notoriety and they would be in fields that I really don't have anything to do with.
It might be horticulture or agronomy or some of those things but something that
Maybe some seed money of some type.
But the President's Endowed Scholarships, to me, are just about as fine as anything I know.
Then I request.
If you ever have any papers, any stuff, any memorabilia you want to share, either to give the originals or copies, I beg you, please put it in the A&M archives that are in the Cushing Library.
I probably have some stuff.
I've got a good bit of stuff from Daddy's tenure.
Like if you wanted to just make copies for you and other members of the family and give them a copy, fine.
But those items are priceless.
They cannot be found anywhere else, probably.
And the best place for them to be organized and preserved and available is there.
And when we get through with these and you get to edit it, we will put a copy there.
Yeah, I have in the drawer in there, and Jimmy may have given you one, but there's a 1935 College Station phone directory.
You haven't seen that?
We're back.
Okay.
But I always make that plea so that those things don't get thrown away.
Because many times somebody will get to the point where, oh, well, this is just old stuff and I'll throw it away.
So in summary, the last question.
What feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M now?
I think Texas A&M is a great school.
I think that A&M has probably done as good a job as anybody anywhere maintaining some of the traditions that made A&M what it is.
And I'm very pleased that they're trying very hard to maintain as many of those traditions as possible.
I believe A&M, in spite of it being as big as it is, is a special place.
And I think that it has a special place in the heart of its graduates for other graduates and new people to come to A&M.
And the fact that it's willing to help those graduates as much as it is, I believe that each graduate owes to A&M a whole lot.
because the ability to get a job or to get an interview or whatever, I believe is better at A&M because of the record that its former students have created.
And to me, that's the legacy that makes A&M so strong.